Clarify when lattice_vectors MAY be null and how (#257)
Materials-Consortia/OPTIMADE: optimade.rst

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Description**: The three lattice vectors in Cartesian coordinates, in ångström (Å).

> - **Type**: list of list of floats and/or unknown values.

Reviewer: Is "unknown values" unambiguous here (and below) in a "type" field? Perhaps we should be more verbose here too, e.g.

> a list of 3 lists, where each sublist also has length 3 and consists of all floats or all :val:`null` values.

Author: Yes and no. I think for the `Type` entry there shouldn't be any restraints or requirements. These should be clearly listed underneath. Here it's only a matter of _what_ it is, i.e., a list of lists containing either floats or unknown values (the `and` should be removed).

Reviewer: Works for me. I guess `cartesian_site_positions` is different as individual values can be `null` to signify uncertainty.

  - MUST be a list of three vectors *a*, *b*, and *c*, where each of the vectors MUST BE a list of the vector's coordinates along the x, y, and z Cartesian coordinates.
    (Therefore, the first index runs over the three lattice vectors and the second index runs over the x, y, z Cartesian coordinates).
  - For databases that do not define an absolute Cartesian system (e.g., only defining the length and angles between vectors), the first lattice vector SHOULD be set along *x* and the second on the *xy*-plane.

>   - This property MUST be an array of dimensions 3 times 3 regardless of the elements of :property:`dimension_types`.

Reviewer 2: I see issues with this point (even in the state before this PR):
- OPTiMaDe formally doesn't have an array type
- `lattice_vectors` isn't a 3x3 array, it is a list of three vectors, each of 3 elements.
- The requirement that this point adds is quite redundant with the first point.

If we think it is valuable (it was added to aid some confusion), I suggest the following:
```suggestion
  - MUST always contain three vectors of three coordinates each, independently of the elements of :property:`dimension_types`.
```
But I actually think the point can be dropped entirely, because the first point is clear enough on the 3x3 format being mandatory.

Author: For clarification, I think it's good to keep it in. And indeed, we do not have an array type, but define a `list` instead.

    The vectors SHOULD by convention be chosen so the determinant of the :property:`lattice_vectors` matrix is different from zero.
    The vectors in the non-periodic directions have no significance beyond fulfilling these requirements.

>   - The coordinates of the lattice vectors of non-periodic dimensions (i.e., those dimensions for which `dimension\_types`_ is :val:`0`) MAY be given as a list of :val:`null` values.

Reviewer 3: I think this means that even just one value can be `null`. From the issue I gather you want that if one is null, all coordinates of that vector are null? In that case, you might want to add an explicit sentence about this.

Author: This was indeed the initial intent of this PR.
I'll attempt further clarification.

>   - In the case of non-periodic dimensions, i.e., those dimensions for which :property:`dimension_types` is :val:`0`, implementers MAY choose to replace the values with a list of :val:`null` values.

Author: I'm fine with this.

    The vectors SHOULD by convention be chosen so the determinant of the :property:`lattice_vectors` matrix is different from zero.
    The vectors in the non-periodic directions have no significance beyond fulfilling these requirements.

>   - All three elements of the inner lists of floats MAY be :val:`null` for non-periodic dimensions, i.e., those dimensions for which :property:`dimension\_types` is :val:`0`.

Reviewer: I think I have more of an issue with this line, and perhaps we could avoid the clarification if this part is rephrased, e.g.

> In the case of non-periodic dimensions (i.e. those dimensions for which :property:`dimension\_types` is :val:`0`, implementers MAY choose to replace the values for that dimension with a list of :val:`null` values.

>     To clarify, this means a vector MUST he either all floats or all :val:`null` for non-periodic dimensions; a single :val:`null` value MUST never be found.

Reviewer: Typo:

```suggestion
    To clarify, this means a vector MUST be either all floats or all :val:`null` for non-periodic dimensions; a single :val:`null` value MUST never be found.
```
